Added ⚡️ content to `Payments` > `Transactions` (#593)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/payments/transactions.md

Illustration sources

- https://www.figma.com/file/Da2FpXLqY2BX7WN4mQFNZo/Inputs-and-Outputs-Christoph-Copy?node-id=104%3A138
- https://www.figma.com/file/GPyzunxlHOPXILudhrkZRi/Bitcoin-Transactions-and-Payments-Charts?node-id=0%3A1

-->

# Transactions overview

> This page is meant to help you with understanding how bitcoin transactions get created and processed by the Bitcoin and Lightning networks. Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer push-payment system. This means that you can send, or push, bitcoin at any time, without passing through a trusted third party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page is meant to help you understand how bitcoin transactions get created and processed by the Bitcoin and Lightning networks. Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer push-payment system. This means that you can send, or push, bitcoin at any time, without passing through a trusted third party.
```

This is radically different from the traditional financial system, where it is often possible for others to pull and withdraw money from your account (utility companies, financial institutions, merchants, etc.). When you make a payment, it will pass through systems that might delay, control or block the payment.

## Comparing Bitcoin and Lightning

| Bitcoin          | Lightning |
|-------------|------------------|

> | Users send *[transactions]({{'/guide/glossary/#transaction' | relative_url}})*. | Users send *[payments]({{'/guide/glossary/#payment' | relative_url}})*.  |

Reviewer 2: I find it super unintuitive to distinguish transactions and payments by which layer they are on. To me, those words mean 95% the same thing. A distinction I could see being made is that a transaction is the technical thing that happens, while a payment is the thing users make.

Reviewer 2: Especially weird since the section is called `Payments`. The tech primer also uses the term `transactions` when referring to Lightning.

Reviewer: Yeah I agree, could just remove the first line and change this section name to `Comparing Bitcoin and Lightning payments`.

Could distinguish how Bitcoin is more a settlement layer where as Lightning is more for P2P payments.

Author: We had a [Slack discussion about this point](https://bitcoindesign.slack.com/archives/C015856BDME/p1639994002171500).

Let me summarize briefly what I was trying to convey in that thread. Consider this: "Alice pays Bob". We could provide two different descriptions of what is happening in that sentence. One is the **user experience description**. The other is the **technical description**. For the UX description, I feel comfortable using the terms payment and transaction interchangeably. However, for the tech description, the 2 terms should not be used interchangeably. They are very different concepts.

[In this Figma file](https://www.figma.com/file/i5BpraIpOqpqKDRthoxilX/Transactions-and-Payments-Examples?node-id=0%3A1), I have tried to lay out the differences visually.

Since this page is providing more of a technical overview, I think it might be a good idea to use tech descriptions and not UX descriptions.

I tried to update and make this idea a little more clear in 513973c.

Thoughts?

> | Transactions take 10 minutes to an hour for settlement. | Payments are settled almost instantly.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Transactions are settled on average every 10 minutes. | Payments are settled almost instantly.  |
```

| A valid transaction will always be mined, but may be delayed if the fee is too low. | Successful payment depends on Lightning network liquidity and finding a path to the recipient. |
| Bitcoin is typically better for larger amounts of funds and less frequent transactions. | Lightning is typically better for smaller amounts of funds and more frequent payments. |

For a more detailed look, see the [Technology Primer]({{'/guide/getting-started/technology-primer/' | relative_url}}).

> ## Lightning Payment Lifecycle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Lightning payment Lifecycle
```

Reviewer: Lifecycle should also be lower cased.

For most payments, the Lightning network is the best option, as it will enable the recipient to receive their bitcoin quicker and the sender to pay less in fees.

{% include picture.html
image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/transactions/payment-lifecycle.svg"
mobile = "/assets/images/guide/payments/transactions/payment-lifecycle-mobile.svg"
alt-text = "Flow chart of the process of a Lightning payment from invoice creation through successful payment"
width = 1300
height = 240
layout = "full-width"
%}

### 1. Create invoice

> To make a payment, the sender requires an invoice created by the recipient. The recipient's wallet application creates a preimage, or payment secret, which is then used to create an invoice for one-time use. The recipient can share the invoice with the sender as a QR code, over NFC, in plain text, or as a payment link.

Reviewer 3: Is invoice creation always a step? How about with LN-URL or keysend?

Author: WIth LNURL, invoice creation is a step; however, the actual invoice is generated by a remote server.

With keysend, there is no invoice. Personally, I'm not interested in talking much about keysend. I'm not convinced it's a technique that should be promoted, and I think other solutions will become more widely used.

What do you think? Should I add some more nuance to this section? e.g. "happens like this most of the time, but not all the time".

Reviewer 3: I was mostly curious how you think about these things. Personally for me things like LNURL-Pay, Bolt12 and keysend don't really feel like invoice creation,  at least from the user-perspective.

Mostly, just want to make sure we're consistent on how we talk about things, especially because of the things in #589 

An easy work-around would probably be to add, `most of the times invoice created by the recepient`

Author: I added some details about this in 08a4ce0.

Reviewer 3: Fantastic, thank you for addressing that one.

> To make a payment, the sender requires an invoice created by the recipient. The recipient's wallet application creates a preimage, or payment secret, which is then used to create an invoice for one-time use. The sender can share the invoice with the recipient as a QR code, over NFC, in plain text, or as a payment link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make a payment, the sender requires an invoice created by the recipient. The recipient's wallet application creates a preimage, or payment secret, which is then used to create an invoice for one-time use. The recipient can share the invoice with the sender as a QR code, over NFC, in plain text, or as a payment link.
```

### 2. Confirm payment

The sender loads the invoice into their wallet application. After reviewing that the amount looks correct and the fee estimate is satisfactory, the sender confirms that they would like to make the payment.

> ### 3. Pathfinding & Routing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3. Pathfinding & routing
```

The wallet application attempts to route the payment to the recipient. In order to do this, it must attempt to construct a path through the Lightning network. Pathfinding is a complex, probabilistic process, which means that the routing fees shown in the prior step are only an estimate.

If the payment along a particular path fails, the wallet application will repeatedly attempt the payment again with a different path until the payment succeeds.

### 4. Receive payment and reveal preimage

The payment reaches the intended recipient. The recipient's wallet application reveals the preimage to the previous node in the successful path. The preimage is passed in reverse through the path by every node in the path.

### 5. Payment complete

Once the preimage is passed all the way to the sender's wallet application, the sender's wallet application can consider the payment to be complete.

This sounds like a complicated process; however, steps 3 - 5 are handled by software, and they happen very quickly. Users are not typically exposed to these details.

> ## Bitcoin Transaction lifecycle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Bitcoin transaction lifecycle
```

Illustration sources

- https://www.figma.com/file/Da2FpXLqY2BX7WN4mQFNZo/Inputs-and-Outputs-Christoph-Copy?node-id=104%3A138
- https://www.figma.com/file/GPyzunxlHOPXILudhrkZRi/Bitcoin-Transactions-and-Payments-Charts?node-id=0%3A1

-->

# Transactions overview

This page is meant to help you understand how users' transactions get created and processed by the Bitcoin and Lightning networks. Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer push-payment system. This means that you can send, or push, bitcoin at any time, without passing through a trusted third party.

This is radically different from the traditional financial system, where it is often possible for others to pull and withdraw money from your account (utility companies, financial institutions, merchants, etc.). When you make a payment, it will pass through systems that might delay, control or block the payment.

> {% include tip/open.html color="blue" icon="info" label="A note about terminology" %}

Reviewer 2: I love this note ❤️

   layout = "full-width"
%}

### 1. Get recipient address

> The sender needs a valid address for the payment to be sent to. This can be shared by the recipient as a QR code, in plain text, or as a payment link.

Reviewer 2: Could also be NFC, same as the options for Lightning.

Author: Updated
